{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red83\green83\blue83;\red244\green244\blue244;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;\red195\green227\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c96471\c96471\c96471;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c6667\c6667\c6667;\cssrgb\c80392\c91373\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
00:04\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 It seems we have been measured almost all of our lives,\'a0when we are infants, with our height and our weight,\'a0and as we grew it became our speed and our strength.\'a0And even in school there are test scores\'a0and today with our salaries and job performance.\'a0It seems as if those personal averages are almost always used\'a0to measure where we are in comparison to our peers.\'a0And I think we should look at that a little differently.\'a0That personal average is just that, it's something very personal\'a0and it's for you,\'a0and I think if you focus on that and work to build that,\'a0you can really start to accomplish some really amazing things.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 00:39\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 This idea started for me on a December evening in 2011.\'a0I had just stepped outside to do our evening chores\'a0to feed our horses.\'a0I hopped into our tractor,\'a0and a few minutes later,\'a0a five foot tall, 700-pound bale of hay fell from the loader,\'a0crushing me in the seat of the tractor\'a0and in the process shattering my T5 and T6 vertebrae.\'a0I didn't lose consciousness,\'a0\cb7 but I felt this buzz throughout my body, and I knew what had happened right away.\cb5 \'a0My hands were reaching for my legs,\'a0but my legs didn't recognize anything touching them.\'a0And in fact, I couldn't feel anything from the center of my chest down.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 01:14\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 So there I was, about 100 feet from the house,\'a0with my arms wrapped around the steering the wheel,\'a0trying to hold myself up, waiting for help.\'a0And unlike what you see in TV and the movies,\'a0as much as I tried to get the dogs to go to the house and get help --\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 01:29\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 (Laughter)\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 01:30\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 they just stared at me.\'a0Well, 45 minutes later, my wife came home,\'a0and I heard her step out of the house\'a0and, like, normal, if I needed help, "Hey, do you need help?"\'a0And I said, "Yes."\'a0And there was a brief pause and then I heard her yell,\'a0"Do you need 9/11 help?"\'a0And again I yelled, "Yes."\'a0Well, not long after I was enjoying my very first helicopter ride\'a0all the way to the hospital.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 01:53\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Now, the injury wasn't very dramatic or graphic.\'a0I simply broke a bone or two.\'a0And in the process, I was told I'd probably never walk again.\'a0It became very normal for me to use a rope to sit up in bed,\'a0because my abdominal muscles no longer work.\'a0Or to use a board to slide out of bed into a wheelchair,\'a0or to even wait for people to reach things for me.\'a0Everything that I had learned and had known about my height\'a0and my strength and my balance and my mobility was blown away.\'a0My entire personal average had been reset.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 02:28\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Now you could be sure in those days I was being measured more than ever,\'a0by the doctors and nurses for sure\'a0but maybe more so in my own mind,\'a0and I found myself comparing\'a0what I thought I was going to be able to do going forward\'a0with what I once was able to do.\'a0And I became pretty frustrated.\'a0It took some very consistent prodding from my wife, who kept saying,\'a0"Get your eyes up," before I could get moving forward.\'a0And I soon realized that I almost had to forget about the person I was before\'a0and the things I was able to do before.\'a0I almost had to pretend it was never me.\'a0And I'm afraid if I had not made that realization,\'a0my frustration would have turned into something much harder to recover from.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 03:08\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Now, luckily, a few weeks later,\'a0I was transferred to a specialty spinal cord rehab hospital\'a0about 10 hours from home, and wouldn't you know,\'a0the first day of rehab and the first session\'a0we had something called fit class,\'a0and a group of us broke into teams\'a0to see which team could do the most reps in the weight machine.\'a0Now, we've all been there, haven't been to the gym in a year or two.\'a0Neither had I.\'a0And so what do you do?\'a0You try to do what you did a couple of years ago,\'a0and you do a couple of sets.\'a0And then what do you do? A couple more.\'a0And you're feeling even better, so you do more.\'a0And the next two weeks you complain to your family about how sore you are.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 03:43\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 (Laughter)\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 03:44\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Well, my team went all out and we won, we won big,\'a0and for the next three days I could not straighten my arms,\'a0which isn't that big a deal except when you're in a wheelchair\'a0and that's really what you have to use to get around.\'a0And that proved to be a very important lesson for me.\'a0It was one thing that I couldn't compare myself to myself,\'a0but even around people in the same situation in that hospital,\'a0I found that I couldn't try to keep pace or set pace with them as well,\'a0and I was left with really only one choice\'a0and that was to focus on who I was at that point in time\'a0with where I needed to go and to get back to who I needed to be.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 04:18\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 For the next six weeks, for seven to eight hours a day,\'a0that's what I did.\'a0I built little by little,\'a0and, as you might expect,\'a0when you're recovering from a spinal cord injury,\'a0you're going to have a bad day.\'a0You might have a few in a row.\'a0What I found out is that good and bad really didn't have a lot of meaning\'a0unless I had the context of knowing what my average was.\'a0It was really up to me to decide if something was bad or good\'a0based on where I was at that point in time,\'a0and it was in my control to determine if it really was a bad day.\'a0In fact, it was my decision on whether or not I could stop\'a0a streak of bad days.\'a0And what I found during that time away from home\'a0is I never had a bad day, even with everything going on.\'a0There were parts of my day that were certainly not as pleasant\'a0as they could be,\'a0but it was never an entirely bad day.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 05:06\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 So I'm guessing that all of you have been through a meeting\'a0that probably didn't go very well,\'a0or a commute that wasn't as great as you would like it,\'a0or even burned dinner at night.\'a0Did those things really ruin your entire day?\'a0What I found in those scenarios is the quicker you move on to what's next,\'a0the quicker you can start attacking things.\'a0And by moving on to next as fast as possible,\'a0you shrink the time you spend in those bad scenarios\'a0and it gives more time for the good.\'a0And, as a result, the good outweighs the bad,\'a0your average increases and that's just how the math works.\'a0It didn't matter to me if I'd spent the morning\'a0really struggling with my medication,\'a0or at lunch my legs being very spastic,\'a0or even if I had fallen out of my wheelchair.\'a0Ask my wife. It happens quite often.\'a0She's here.\'a0They were just small parts of my day and small parts of my average.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 05:59\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 And so, in the months and years that followed,\'a0I continued to try to attack things in that way,\'a0and before I knew it I was being presented with some pretty incredible challenges,\'a0like completing a marathon in a wheelchair.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 06:12\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 In early 2016, I met my physical therapist,\'a0and after a few really grueling sessions, she must have sensed something,\'a0because she pulled me aside and said, "You know, you should do a half marathon.\'a0In your wheelchair. And, oh yeah, it's in 10 weeks."\'a0And I thought in my mind, "You're crazy." I didn't have a workout plan.\'a0I didn't have any way of knowing how fast I needed to go\'a0or how far I was supposed to go.\'a0But I simply got to work,\'a0and I started tracking every workout, every day,\'a0and I simply wanted to be as good as or as fast as I was the prior day.\'a0And in the end I really created that average for myself\'a0and I tried to build on that as much as I could.\'a0Well, I finished that race right in time with what my average should have been,\'a0and somewhere along the way\'a0I kind of closed the door on who I once was.\'a0That person who I was before\'a0and all those things I thought I was able to do really didn't matter.\'a0In fact, walking again really didn't matter.\'a0It became much less of a goal for me in terms of where I was going to go.\'a0And besides, like, you guys are so slow when you walk.\'a0In crowds like this, it is so difficult.\'a0I'm like, "Get out of the way. We're going places."\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 07:23\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 (Laughter)\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 07:24\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 And all I wanted to do was go fast.\'a0And so I did what I thought I should do.\'a0I started researching wheelchair racing.\'a0And I went online and I found the best of the best,\'a0I learned their technique, I learned about the equipment,\'a0and I was lucky to have a coach that offered me a way to get started.\'a0And after talking with him\'a0and having him help me get those things underway,\'a0as I was leaving, he says, "You know, you should do the 2017 Chicago Marathon."\'a0And he's the coach, I can't tell him no.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 07:54\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 So with that guidance, I went back home, and I got to work,\'a0much like in the prior way.\'a0And I continued researching, but I had learned my lesson.\'a0I was really careful not to compare\'a0with how accomplished those people on the internet were\'a0and how fast they were,\'a0because if I had, I probably never would have continued\'a0going through with it.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 08:13\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Well, the weekend of the race arrived,\'a0and it was just like going to college for the first time.\'a0You're dumped off,\'a0there's a whole bunch of people around you,\'a0you don't really know very many of them,\'a0somebody's got the cool stereo and the cool TV\'a0and they're smart and they're pretty and they're cute and they're handsome\'a0and you don't know if you really belong.\'a0But then somebody says, "Hey, let's go get food."\'a0And all of a sudden, that friend group happens\'a0and you start to settle in.\'a0Well, that weekend of the race,\'a0we had a meeting called the Wheelers Meeting,\'a0and there were 60 wheelchairs in that room the night before the race.\'a0And wouldn't you know it,\'a0all of the people that I had been researching were there,\'a0the best in the world.\'a0There must have been over 50 Paralympic medals in the room that day.\'a0And I felt pretty small and I fell back into that trap of comparing myself.\'a0I knew that my averages that I had been tracking during my workouts\'a0were over 90 seconds slower per mile than theirs.\'a0And the coach was the only one there that I knew,\'a0and he reached out and noticed something, and I think he sensed my anxiety,\'a0and he invited me to get food with his team.\'a0And with that, everything settled down.\'a0I realized really quick that they didn't care about my average, surely,\'a0and I had forgotten about theirs.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 09:30\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Well that next day,\'a0I finished the race about 45 minutes after the person that won it.\'a0But as I was leaving, those new friends, who are very close today,\'a0challenged me to stay involved\'a0and to keep working through different races and competitions.\'a0And so I did what I knew how. I went home, and I got busy.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 09:48\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Now, as you can imagine, being in a wheelchair,\'a0let alone training for a marathon in a wheelchair,\'a0is a pretty lonely thing.\'a0I have an incredible group of friends\'a0that will ride bikes with me and keep track of pace and help me out.\'a0But in the end, it's still five to six days a week,\'a0it's 50 to 60 miles of effort, and it's a lot of alone time.\'a0And for the most part,\'a0you really have nothing to rely on but yourself in those times.\'a0It's my average, and I'm trying to get better little by little.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 10:16\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 Well, this fall I was in Chicago for the third time.\'a0It was my seventh marathon,\'a0and just like going back to college for your junior year,\'a0you're anticipating catching up with friends\'a0and getting excited about rolling right back into things.\'a0Well, I attended the same pre-race meeting and the same pre-race meal\'a0and caught up with those friends.\'a0And we lined up for the race,\'a0and right at the start, my average kicked in,\'a0and before long I caught up with some of those friends\'a0and was able to keep pace with them and push together.\'a0But it wasn't long before I faded.\'a0It just happened, and I found myself all alone again\'a0with really nothing to rely on other than what I had worked so hard to be at.\'a0But we turned into the wind at the halfway point,\'a0and my average became a strong advantage,\'a0and it wasn't long before I caught some of those friends\'a0and passed them all the way to the finish.\'a0And while I didn't set a personal record that day,\'a0I did finish 30 seconds per mile faster than my prior Chicago times\'a0and just left myself pretty excited.\'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 11:16\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf4 \cb5 And so this is me. This is my average.\'a0Seventy-five days from today, I'll be in Boston for my second time.\'a0I'm super excited about that.\'a0But keep in mind, this isn't really just about racing.\'a0I'm working really hard every day to be better in so many other ways,\'a0a better parent, a better husband, a better coach, teammate, friend, person.\'a0And I promise you, even though what you see here is very visible\'a0in terms of the challenges that I face,\'a0everybody here has something that they're fighting,\'a0and it may be visible, it may not be,\'a0but please, take some time and focus on you instead of others,\'a0and I bet you can win those challenges\'a0and really start accomplishing so many great things.\'a0\cb1 \
}